>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 14: A NEW
TERROR ATTACK IN EUROPE-- THREE
POLICEMEN ARE SHOT.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
COLORADO'S LEGALIZATION OF
MARIJUANA HAS ANGERED SOME OF
ITS NEIGHBORS.
NOW THEY'RE SUING TO KEEP IT
OUT.
>> NEBRASKA DIDN'T ASK TO
LEGALIZE IT.
IT'S STILL ILLEGAL HERE.
WE DON'T HAVE A CHOICE.
WE HAVE TO ENFORCE THE LAW.
>> Stewart: AND THE CHANGING
FACE OF NETWORK COMEDY.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
ALISON STEWART.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING.
I'M ALISON STEWART.
HARI SREENIVASAN WILL BE BACK
NEXT WEEKEND.
THERE HAS BEEN ANOTHER TERROR
ATTACK IN EUROPE.
POLICE IN COPENHAGEN, DENMARK,
SAY A GUNMAN FIRED DOZENS OF
BULLETS INTO A CAFE, KILLING ONE
PERSON AND INJURING THREE
POLICEMEN.
AT THE TIME, AN EVENT TITLED
"ARTS, BLASPHEMY AND FREEDOM OF
EXPRESSION" WAS BEING STAGED
THERE.
THE EVENT FEATURED A WELL-KNOWN
SWEDISH ARTIST AND CARTOONIST
WHO HAD BEEN THREATENED DURING
HIS CAREER FOR HIS DEPICTIONS OF
THE PROPHET MOHAMMAD.
THE FRENCH AMBASSADOR TO DENMARK
WAS THERE AS WELL BUT WAS
UNINJURED.
ALL THIS, A MONTH AFTER THE
TERROR ATTACK IN PARIS AT THE
SATIRICAL MAGAZINE CHARLIE HEBDO
LEFT 12 PEOPLE DEAD.
POLICE RELEASED THIS PHOTO OF
THE SUSPECT.
THE UNITED STATES IS REPORTEDLY
STEPPING UP ARMS SHIPMENTS TO
JORDAN TO HELP IN THE WAR
AGAINST ISIS.
JORDAN HAS BEEN CONDUCTING AIR
STRIKES AGAINST THE ISLAMIC
EXTREMISTS SINCE A JORDANIAN
PILOT WAS BURNED ALIVE.
ITS MUNITIONS ARE SAID TO BE
STRETCHED THIN.
THERE WAS HEAVY FIGHTING IN
EASTERN UKRAINE TODAY HOURS
BEFORE THE LATEST CEASE-FIRE
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT AND PRO-RUSSIAN
REBELS WENT INTO EFFECT.
THE UNITED STATES AND UKRAINE
BOTH ACCUSE RUSSIA OF DEPLOYING
ARTILLERY AND SHELLING UKRAINIAN
POSITIONS IN THE HOURS LEADING
UP TO THE CEASE-FIRE.
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT PETRO
POROSHENKO SAID TODAY HE STILL
WANTS A PEACEFUL RESOLUTION OF
THE CONFLICT, BUT HE THREATENED
TO IMPOSE MARTIAL LAW IN THE
AREA.
AND HE ADDED THIS:
>> (translated): TODAY, WE ARE
AT A VERY IMPORTANT CROSSROADS.
EITHER THE ENEMY STOPS SHOOTING
AND EMBARKS ON DE-ESCALATION AND
THEN POLITICAL RESOLUTION, OR
THE ENEMY ESCALATES THE CONFLICT
FOR US AND FOR EUROPE AND THE
WHOLE WORLD.
>> Stewart: AT THE VATICAN
TODAY, IN A CEREMONY AT SAINT
PETER'S BASILICA, POPE FRANCIS
NAMED 20 NEW CARDINALS, ONLY TWO
FROM EUROPE AND NONE FROM THE
UNITED STATES.
MOST OF THOSE CARDINALS ARE FROM
DEVELOPING COUNTRIES AROUND THE
WORLD.
THE POPE'S SELECTIONS ARE SEEN
AS PART OF HIS ONGOING EFFORTS
TO CHANGE THE BALANCE OF POWER
IN THE CHURCH LEADERSHIP.
CLOSER TO HOME, AUTHORITIES IN
NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA, HAVE
CHARGED TWO PEOPLE WITH
CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT MURDER
AFTER UNCOVERING A PLOT TO STAGE
A MASS SHOOTING IN HALIFAX
TODAY.
OFFICIALS THERE SAY THE PLANNED
ATTACK WAS NOT "CULTURALLY
BASED" AND SAID "THERE IS
NOTHING IN THE INVESTIGATION TO
CLASSIFY IT AS A POSSIBLE
TERRORIST ATTACK."
THEY DID NOT SAY WHAT DID
MOTIVATE THE PLAN.
ONE OF THOSE ARRESTED WAS A 23-
YEAR-OLD ILLINOIS WOMAN.
POLICE IN HOUSTON, TEXAS, ARE
INVESTIGATING ARSON AS A
POSSIBLE CAUSE OF A FIRE AT AN
ISLAMIC CENTER THERE YESTERDAY.
THE FIRE, WHICH BEGAN BEFORE
MORNING PRAYERS, BURNED FOR AN
HOUR AND DESTROYED ONE OF THREE
BUILDINGS ON THE COMPLEX.
THE TEXAS STATE HISTORICAL
ASSOCIATION SAY TEXAS HAS THE
EIGHTH LARGEST MUSLIM POPULATION
IN THE UNITED STATES, ABOUT
420,000 PEOPLE.
THE FAMILY OF AN UNARMED MAN
SHOT DEAD EARLIER THIS WEEK BY
POLICE IN WASHINGTON STATE HAS
FILED A $25 MILLION WRONGFUL
DEATH LAWSUIT AGAINST THE CITY
OF PASCO.
THIS, AS THE COUNTY CORONER
ORDERED AN INQUEST INTO THE
SHOOTING, WHICH WAS CAPTURED ON
VIDEO BY A MOTORIST.
THE POLICE SAY THE MAN WHO WAS
KILLED HAD BEEN THROWING ROCKS
AT THEM AND REFUSED TO STOP WHEN
THEY TRIED TO ARREST HIM.
THE INCIDENT LED TO PROTESTS IN
THE CITY ABOUT 215 MILES
SOUTHEAST OF SEATTLE.
AND THE UNITED STATES COULD BE
IN FOR WHAT NASA IS DESCRIBING
AS THE WORST DROUGHT IN A
THOUSAND YEARS, WHAT IT CALLS A
"MEGA-DROUGHT."
THE NASA STUDY WARNS THAT IF
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
CONTINUE TO INCREASE, IT'S
LIKELY THE SOUTHWEST AND CENTRAL
PLAINS WILL SEE A DROUGHT
STARTING AS EARLY AS 2050 AND
THAT COULD LAST DECADES, A
DROUGHT THAT NASA WARNS WILL
PRODUCE WATER SHORTAGES FAR
WORSE THAN THE CURRENT DROUGHT.
>> Stewart: AMERICAN AND AFGHAN
COMMANDOS HAVE SHARPLY
INTENSIFIED RAIDS AGAINST AL
QAEDA AFTER KILLING AN AL QAEDA
LEADER LAST FALL AND SEIZING HIS
COMPUTER.
IT CONTAINED VALUABLE
INFORMATION ABOUT AL QAEDA'S
OPERATIONS IN BOTH AFGHANISTAN
AND PAKISTAN.
FOR MORE ABOUT ALL OF THIS,
WE'RE JOINED NOW BY MATTHEW
ROSENBERG OF THE "NEW YORK
TIMES."
HE CO-AUTHORED THE STORY
DETAILING ALL OF THIS.
SO, WHAT WAS ON THIS LAPTOP,
WHAT KIND OF INFORMATION, AND
WHAT IMPACT HAS IT HAD ON U.S.
MILITARY INVOLVEMENT ON THE
GROUND?
>> WE'RE TOLD THAT IT WAS QUITE
AN EXTENSIVE KIND OF ACCOUNTING
OF AL QAEDA OPERATIONS.
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE ARE PRETTY
TIGHT-LIPPED ABOUT THESE KIND OF
THINGS.
YOU KNOW, THERE WAS A LOT OF
DATA ON THERE THAT ALLOWED THEM
TO KEEP TRACK OF PEOPLE.
IT MAY HAVE BEEN OPERATIONAL.
IT COULD'VE BEEN PHONE NUMBERS.
AL QAEDA KEEPS AMAZING RECORDS
OF WHAT IT DOES.
A LOT OF THESE MILITANT
ORGANIZATIONS DO.
AND EVEN THINGS LIKE A PHONE
LIST CAN PROVIDE HUGE
INTELLIGENCE IF YOU'RE TRYING TO
TRACK PEOPLE DOWN.
YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S ALSO
IMPORTANT TO NOTE THERE WERE
OTHER FACTORS AT PLAY HERE.
A NEW AFGHAN PRESIDENT WAS
SUDDENLY MORE OPEN TO WORKING
WITH THE U.S.; AND, YOU KNOW,
THE AFGHAN ARMY HAD A REALLY
ROUGH TIME LAST YEAR, AND THE
AMERICANS REALLY WANT TO KEEP
HELPING THEM.
ONE OF THE BIGGER THINGS THEY'VE
BEEN ABLE TO DO TO HELP IS TO GO
AFTER THE MID-LEVEL COMMANDERS
OF THE INSURGENCY.
AND, YOU KNOW, THE AL QAEDA
GUYS, WHILE NOT DIRECTLY PART OF
THE TALIBAN, THEY DO OFTEN AID
THE TALIBAN, PROVIDE A KIND OF
EXPERTISE.
>> Stewart: SOMETHING, MATTHEW,
I FIND SO FASCINATING ABOUT THIS
STORY-- ALMOST THE "GEE WHIZ"
OF IT-- IS THAT A COMPUTER HAS
BEEN SO USEFUL; GIVEN ALL THE
MILITARY MIGHT AND ALL THE POWER
WE HAVE AND ALL THE
INTELLIGENCE, THAT ONE PIECE OF
EQUIPMENT HAS PROVEN TO BE SO
VALUABLE.
>> YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE PROBLEMS
THEY'VE ALWAYS HAD IN FIGHTING
THE TALIBAN AND AL QAEDA TO A
DEGREE IS GETTING PEOPLE INSIDE.
THE TALIBAN'S LEADERSHIP IS A
GROUP OF VILLAGERS WHO ALL GREW
UP TOGETHER.
GETTING PEOPLE ON THE INSIDE TO
FEED INFORMATION, VERY
DIFFICULT.
AL QAEDA, THE SAME THING.
THEY'RE IN DISTANT AREAS.
THEY ARE VERY CLOSE ABOUT WHO
THEY LET INTO THE INNER CIRCLE.
SO, SOMETHING LIKE A COMPUTER
CAN PROVIDE A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT
OF INSIGHT INTO WHAT'S GOING ON,
EVEN IT'S JUST A BUNCH OF
RECORDS OF WHO BOUGHT WHAT, WHEN
AND WHERE-- YOU KNOW, PRINTER
CARTRIDGES, TELEPHONES, WHO
KNOWS.
>> Stewart: ONE OF THE AFGHAN
OFFICIALS QUOTED IN THE STORY
THAT YOU CO-AUTHORED SAID THIS
IS A "SECRET WAR," THESE RAIDS.
>> YOU KNOW, THERE'S ALWAYS BEEN
TWO WARS GOING ON IN
AFGHANISTAN.
THERE'S THE KIND OF BIG ARMY,
PUBLIC WAR THE EMBEDS, THE
JOURNALISTS LIKE MYSELF AND
OTHERS WENT AROUND AND WE SAW;
AND THEN THERE WAS THE SECRET
WAR-- NIGHT RAIDS, CLANDESTINE
OPERATIONS-- THAT WENT AFTER
INSURGENT LEADERS, INSURGENT
FINANCES.
YOU KNOW, WE NEVER GOT A CLOSE
LOOK AT THAT.
AND THE BIG WAR IS OVER.
I MEAN, THOSE DAYS OF BIG U.S.
TROOPS OCCUPYING BASES AROUND
THE COUNTRY, THAT'S DONE.
BUT THAT SECRET WAR, THAT
CLANDESTINE WAR IS STILL VERY
MUCH GOING.
AND, YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT'S
ONE OF THE ISSUES HERE IS THAT
WE'VE GOT THE PRESIDENT
DECLARING THE WAR OVER-- I THINK
IT WAS ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS
HE SAID IN THE STATE OF THE
UNION-- BUT THERE ARE AMERICANS
WHO ARE STILL VERY MUCH INVOLVED
TO A DEGREE IN COMBAT IN
AFGHANISTAN.
>> Stewart: AND IS THAT WHY BOTH
SIDES-- AMERICAN AND AFGHAN
SIDE-- HAVE KEPT THIS RELATIVELY
QUIET?
>> I THINK THAT'S PART OF IT.
THERE IS SOME NECESSITY FOR
OPERATIONAL SECRECY, AND WE ALL
UNDERSTAND THAT.
AND I THINK THERE'S THE ISSUE OF
POLITICAL FALLOUT AT HOME.
IN THE U.S., YOU KNOW, ON A
RANGE OF ISSUES-- THIS, ON DATA
RELEASED BY THE MILITARY ABOUT
WHAT'S GOING ON IN AFGHANISTAN--
THERE JUST IS LESS AND LESS
AVAILABLE, AND THE IMPRESSION WE
HAVE IS EVERYBODY WANTS TO KIND
OF FORGET ABOUT IT.
ON THE AFGHAN SIDE, THE IMAGE OF
AMERICANS STILL RAIDING AFGHAN
HOMES AT NIGHT, EVEN IF THEY'RE
DOING IT WITH AFGHAN TROOPS, IS
JUST NOT A GOOD IMAGE THAT
ANYBODY WANTS TO SEE AND ANY
LEADER THERE WANTS OUT IN
PUBLIC.
>> Stewart: MATTHEW ROSENBERG
FROM THE "NEW YORK TIMES," THANK
YOU FOR SHARING YOUR REPORTING.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Stewart: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, OUR ORIGINAL
IN-DEPTH REPORTS FROM AROUND THE
NATION AND AROUND THE WORLD.
YOU NO DOUBT HAVE HEARD A GREAT
DEAL ABOUT COLORADO'S
LEGALIZATION OF MARIJUANA AND
HOW SALES THERE ARE PRODUCING
TENS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN
TAX REVENUES.
WHAT YOU PROBABLY HAVEN'T HEARD
ABOUT IS THE IMPACT COLORADO'S
DECISION HAS HAD ON NEIGHBORING
STATES.
HERE'S A HINT: AUTHORITIES IN
THOSE OTHER STATES ARE NOT VERY
HAPPY.
IN FACT, SO UNHAPPY THAT SOME OF
THEM HAVE FILED A LAWSUIT.
I RECENTLY TRAVELED TO WESTERN
NEBRASKA, NEAR THE COLORADO
STATE LINE, TO SEE HOW THE STORY
IS PLAYING OUT THERE.
ADAM HAYWARD IS THE SHERIFF OF
DEUEL COUNTY, NEBRASKA, WHICH IS
RIGHT BY THE STATE LINE WITH
COLORADO.
SHERIFF HAYWARD SAYS HIS WORK
HAS NOT BEEN THE SAME SINCE
COLORADO LEGALIZED RECREATIONAL
MARIJUANA.
>> KEEP IT OVER THERE.
IT'S STILL ILLEGAL HERE.
WE DON'T HAVE A CHOICE.
WE HAVE TO ENFORCE THE LAW.
>> Stewart: THE SHERIFF SAYS
HE'S ARRESTED ALL SORTS OF
PEOPLE CARRYING MARIJUANA BACK
FROM COLORADO ALONG INTERSTATE
76-- TEENAGERS MAKING WEEKEND
RUNS TO DENVER, AND, ONCE, A 67-
YEAR-OLD GRANDMOTHER.
WITH EACH ARREST, THE SHERIFF
COLLECTS MORE AND MORE
MARIJUANA.
IT IS CATALOGED AND THEN STORED
IN THE DEUEL COUNTY JAIL CELL.
>> NOW WE KEEP ALL OUR EVIDENCE
HERE.
>> Stewart: WHICH YOU CAN SMELL.
>> YES.
ALL THESE TRASH BAGS, THESE
TOTES, THIS, THESE WERE ALL OUT
OF ONE STOP WE HAD.
>> Stewart: THAT WAS ONE STOP?
>> THERE WERE 75 POUNDS THAT
THIS GENTLEMAN HAD.
>> Stewart: WHAT!
>> AND THEY HAD... LIKE I SAID,
ALL THESE BAGS, ALL THESE TOTES
WERE FILLED.
THESE ARE ESSENTIALLY LIKE A
ONE-POUND PACKAGE AND THERE'S 75
OF THESE PACKAGES.
AND THIS WAS OUT OF ONE TRAFFIC
STOP.
>> Stewart: WOW!
WHAT DID HE GET PULLED OVER FOR?
>> SPEEDING.
>> Stewart: THE SHERIFF SAYS
THAT BATCH OF POT CAME FROM A
MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITY IN
COLORADO.
HE'S ALSO RECOVERED LOTS OF
EDIBLE PRODUCTS IN CARS HE PULLS
OVER ON I-76.
THE NUMBER OF MARIJUANA CASES IS
SOARING.
IN 2011, WHEN COLORADO ONLY SOLD
MEDICAL CANNABIS, THE SHERIFF
STOPPED SOMEONE COMING BACK FROM
COLORADO WITH POT LESS THAN ONCE
A WEEK.
LAST YEAR, WHEN RECREATIONAL
CANNABIS BECAME LEGAL, THE
SHERIFF'S COUNTY HAD MORE THAN
ONE MARIJUANA CASE A WEEK.
LAST MONTH, THERE WERE AT LEAST
FIVE CASES A WEEK.
>> WE JUST GO OUT AND STOP CARS
FOR NORMAL TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
AND IT SEEMS TO BE THAT THERE
ARE SO MANY PEOPLE THAT ARE
GOING OVER TO GET THIS, YOU JUST
CAN'T HELP BUT RUN INTO IT JUST
BY STOPPING A FEW CARS.
>> Stewart: WHAT HASN'T CHANGED
IS THE NUMBER OF OFFICERS
WORKING IN DEUEL COUNTY-- THREE
FULL-TIME AND TWO PART-TIME
OFFICERS.
THE SHERIFF SAYS HIS COUNTY IS
BEING STRETCHED THIN.
>> WELL, WE'RE A SMALL
DEPARTMENT.
WE USUALLY HAVE ONE PERSON ON AT
A TIME, SO, IF THEY RUN ACROSS
SOMETHING, THEN THEY'RE HAVING
TO CALL SOMEBODY OUT.
WELL, THEN YOU'RE PAYING
OVERTIME.
AND WHERE WE'VE HAD MORE ARRESTS
AND MORE PEOPLE IN JAIL, YOU
KNOW, IT TAKES UP MORE TIME IN
THE COURT.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE HAVING TO
TRANSPORT PRISONERS BACK AND
FORTH, HAVE MORE PEOPLE IN THE
COURTROOM FOR SECURITY.
SO, IT TIES UP OUR TIME DEALING
WITH THESE VERSUS... YOU KNOW,
WE COULD BE DOING OTHER THINGS,
PATROLLING IN TOWN.
>> CAN I SEE A DRIVER'S LICENSE,
REGISTRATION, INSURANCE, PLEASE?
>> Stewart: IT TAKES UP TIME AND
MONEY.
AFTER AN ARREST, REGARDLESS OF
WHETHER THE PERSON IS FROM
NEBRASKA, COLORADO OR ELSEWHERE,
THE COUNTY PICKS UP THE BILL FOR
HOUSING AND MEDICAL TREATMENT
FOR THOSE IN CUSTODY, AS WELL AS
THE COST OF HIRING A PUBLIC
DEFENDER.
SHERIFF HAYWARD SAYS HIS ANNUAL
JAIL BUDGET HAS ALMOST TRIPLED,
UP NEARLY $100,000 SINCE 2011.
>> WHEN YOU HAVE SOMETHING JUMP
UP $100,000, THAT'S A PRETTY BIG
INCREASE FOR 2,000 PEOPLE TO
COVER.
>> Stewart: HOW ARE YOU CLOSING
THAT GAP, FINANCIALLY?
>> BASICALLY, OUT HERE, I MEAN,
ALL THE TAX REVENUE IS GENERATED
FROM PROPERTY TAXES.
SO, IF THE COUNTY NEEDS MORE
MONEY, THEY HAVE TO RAISE THE
PROPERTY TAXES, AND, YOU KNOW,
IT GOES BACK TO THE TAXPAYERS.
>> Stewart: NEBRASKA LAW ENDS
HERE AT THE COLORADO BORDER.
SO, WHILE SHERIFF HAYWARD IS
DOING HIS JOB JUST OVER THERE IN
THE CORNHUSKER STATE, OVER HERE
THE OWNER OF THE FIRST
DISPENSARY BY COLORADO'S NORTH
BORDER IS DOING HIS.
>> I'M CURRENTLY EMPLOYING NINE
PEOPLE FULL-TIME.
>> Stewart: MIKE KOLLARTIS OWNS
A MARIJUANA DISPENSARY IN
SEDGWICK, COLORADO, A TOWN ABOUT
SEVEN MILES FROM THE BORDER.
HIS STORE, SEDGWICK ALTERNATIVE
RELIEF, WHICH SELLS BOTH MEDICAL
AND RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA, IS
NEWLY RENOVATED.
IT STANDS OUT ALONG THIS MAIN
STREET THAT HAS SEEN BETTER
DAYS.
IT HAS BECOME THE MAIN DRAW TO
THIS QUIET TOWN OF 150 PEOPLE.
>> THEY'RE PRETTY HAPPY ABOUT
THE RENOVATIONS I'VE DONE, THE
EMPLOYMENT I'VE BROUGHT.
THE DOLLARS, THE TAX REVENUE
DOLLARS ARE OUTSTANDING.
>> OH, MY GOODNESS!
IT'S BEEN GOOD.
>> Stewart: LUPE PENA CASIAS
OWNS A RESTAURANT AND INN ACROSS
THE STREET.
SHE SAYS THE TOWN HAS SEEN A
HUGE FINANCIAL BOOST BECAUSE
EACH TIME THERE'S A MARIJUANA
SALE AT THE STORE, THE TOWN OF
SEDGWICK GETS A $5 TRANSACTION
FEE.
AND AS LONG AS THE DISPENSARY IS
OPEN, THE CUSTOMERS KEEP COMING.
>> IT'S BUSY, BUSY, BUSY OVER
THERE AND BUSY, BUSY, BUSY HERE.
>> Stewart: EMPLOYEES AT THE
STORE ARE TRAINED TO LOOK OUT
FOR CUSTOMERS WHO MIGHT BREAK
THE LAW.
THE DISPENSARY ALSO DISPLAYS
SIGNS DETAILING THE MARIJUANA
LAWS OF COLORADO AND NEIGHBORING
STATES.
YET THERE IS STILL AN INFLUX OF
POT COMING INTO NEBRASKA AND
OKLAHOMA, SO THE ATTORNEYS
GENERAL OF BOTH STATES FILED A
LAWSUIT IN THE U.S. SUPREME
COURT IN DECEMBER, ALLEGING THAT
THEY "HAVE SUFFERED DIRECT AND
SIGNIFICANT HARM ARISING FROM
THE INCREASED PRESENCE OF
COLORADO-SOURCED MARIJUANA."
NEBRASKA AND OKLAHOMA ALSO
CONTEND THAT COLORADO'S
MARIJUANA LAW "DIRECTLY
CONFLICTS WITH FEDERAL LAW AND
UNDERMINES THE AREA OF DRUG
CONTROL AND ENFORCEMENT."
AND SO, BOTH STATES ARE ASKING
THE SUPREME COURT TO DECLARE
COLORADO'S MARIJUANA LAW
UNCONSTITUTIONAL, AND, IN DOING
SO, UNDO COLORADO'S MARIJUANA
REGULATORY SYSTEM.
BILL KELLY IS A REPORTER WITH
NEBRASKA'S PUBLIC RADIO STATION,
NET, WHO'S BEEN COVERING THE
ISSUE.
WE VIDEO-CHATTED WITH HIM
BECAUSE HE'S BASED IN THE
STATE'S CAPITOL, LINCOLN, OVER
300 MILES AWAY FROM WHERE WE
WERE REPORTING AT THE
NEBRASKA/COLORADO BORDER.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA, OBVIOUSLY,
HAS BEEN AROUND FOR A LONG TIME
IN COLORADO, AND EVERYONE SAW
THAT RECREATIONAL WAS COMING
DOWN THE PIPELINE.
WHY DIDN'T NEBRASKA LEGISLATORS
GET MORE INVOLVED IN DEALING
WITH THIS POROUS BORDER ISSUE
EARLIER?
>> I'M NOT CERTAIN NEBRASKA
POLICY MAKERS WERE REALLY
PREPARED FOR WHAT WAS GOING TO
HAPPEN.
YOU WERE STARTING TO SEE MORE
POSSESSION CASES, YOU WERE
STARTING TO SEE MORE DRIVING
UNDER-THE-INFLUENCE CASES.
BUT THERE WAS, I THINK, A LITTLE
BIT OF A DEER-IN-THE-HEADLIGHTS
FEELING THAT WE DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE APPROPRIATE RESPONSE IS.
>> Stewart: SOME NEBRASKAN
LAWMAKERS BELIEVE THAT THE
APPROPRIATE RESPONSE IS TO
CHANGE THE STATE'S MARIJUANA
LAWS, BUT THERE ARE MANY
DIFFERENT IDEAS ABOUT WHAT TO
DO.
ONE WOULD BE TO LEGALIZE MEDICAL
CANNABIS WHILE ANOTHER WOULD
INCREASE THE FINES FOR EDIBLE
MARIJUANA PRODUCTS.
THE PENALTIES IN NEBRASKA DEPEND
ON HOW MUCH POT IS IN YOUR
POSSESSION.
A FIRST-TIME OFFENSE, UNDER AN
OUNCE, IS A $300 FINE.
MORE THAN AN OUNCE BUT LESS THAN
A POUND IS A MISDEMEANOR WITH
POSSIBLE JAIL TIME AND A FINE.
BUT MORE THAN A POUND IS A
FELONY WITH A MAXIMUM FIVE YEARS
IN PRISON AND/OR A $10,000 FINE.
WHILE NEBRASKA DELIBERATES
WHETHER TO ALLOW MARIJUANA OR
KEEP IT OUT OF THE STATE, SOME
RESIDENTS LIKE JEREMY CRARY FIND
THEMSELVES CAUGHT BETWEEN THE
LAWS OF NEBRASKA AND COLORADO.
NINE YEARS AGO, CRARY
ACCIDENTALLY SHOT HIMSELF IN THE
HEAD WHILE PLAYING WITH A GUN.
AFTER PAINFUL SURGERIES AND
PHYSICAL THERAPY, HE SPENT YEARS
ON MORE THAN A DOZEN MEDICATIONS
AND RECEIVED REGULAR SHOTS OF
BOTOX FOR SEVERE MUSCLE SPASMS.
BUT RECENTLY, HE STARTED TAKING
MEDICAL CANNABIS INSTEAD.
HE SAYS IT'S THE MOST EFFECTIVE
IN RELIEVING HIS PAIN AND
SPASMS.
>> SO, I JUST QUIT TAKING ALL MY
PAIN PILLS THEY PRESCRIBED ME
AND STUFF.
>> Reporter: CRARY HAS MADE
SEVERAL TRIPS ACROSS THE BORDER
TO MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES.
HE SAYS THE STRAINS OF CANNIBIS
HE CAN LEGALLY PURCHASE IN
COLORADO ARE BETTER FOR HIS PAIN
THAN WHAT HE CAN ILLEGALLY GET
IN HIS AREA.
WHAT'S IT LIKE FOR YOU TO
KNOWINGLY BREAK THE LAW WHEN
YOU'RE DRIVING BACK FROM
COLORADO WITH SOME WEED IN YOUR
CAR HEADING HOME?
>> I MEAN, IT MAKES YOU FEEL
LIKE A CRIMINAL.
I HATE IT.
I NEVER KNOW WHETHER THE NEXT
COP'S GOING TO BE, SO I'M ALWAYS
LOOKING AROUND.
>> Stewart: WE SPOKE TO A
SHERIFF OF DEUEL COUNTY, WHICH
IS ONE OF THOSE COUNTIES YOU
HAVE TO DRIVE THROUGH TO GET
BACK THIS WAY.
ARE YOU CONCERNED AT ALL ABOUT
BEING PART OF THAT GROUP THAT'S
BREAKING THE LAW OR THAT'S
CAUSING HIM AND THE TAXPAYERS IN
THAT TOWN A PROBLEM?
>> NO, NOT REALLY.
I'M NOT LOOKING TO JUST GET
HIGH.
I'M NOT TRYING TO BRING IT BACK
AND SELL IT.
I'M JUST TRYING TO RELIEVE
MYSELF OF HAVING TO USE
PHARMACEUTICALS TO HAVE A DECENT
LIFE.
>> Stewart: IF PEOPLE ARE MAKING
THE EFFORT TO ACTUALLY GO BUY
THIS LEGALLY IN COLORADO AS
OPPOSED TO BREAKING TWO LAWS IN
NEBRASKA-- "I'M GOING TO BUY IT
ILLEGALLY AND THEN I'M GOING TO
USE IT ILLEGALLY"-- SHOULDN'T
THERE BE SOME SORT OF ELASTICITY
TO THE PUNISHMENT?
>> NO.
I MEAN, IT'S LEGAL OVER THERE.
THAT'S FINE.
IF YOU WANT TO BUY IT OVER
THERE, USE IT OVER THERE.
DON'T COME BACK HERE WITH IT
BECAUSE IT'S ILLEGAL.
>> Stewart: THE SHERIFF SAYS
HE'S SEEING MORE D.U.I.D.s,
DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF
DRUGS.
HE'S ALSO BEEN VISITING LOCAL
SCHOOLS WITH CONFISCATED
MARIJUANA EDIBLES TO SHOW
TEACHERS STUDENTS MIGHT POSSESS.
AND HE EXPECTS HE'LL SPEND MORE
TIME ON INTERSTATE 76 UNTIL THIS
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE IS
RESOLVED.
>> Stewart: SEE THE ITEMS
NEBRASKA POLICE CONFISCATED
DURING TRAFFIC STOPS ON THEIR
SIDE OF THE COLORADO BORDER.
VISIT www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Stewart: AS THE FACE OF
AMERICA IS CHANGING AND THE
NATION IS BECOMING MORE RACIALLY
AND ETHNICALLY DIVERSE, SO, TOO,
IS THE FACE OF NETWORK PRIME-
TIME TELEVISION.
RECENTLY, ABC PREMIERED "FRESH
OFF THE BOAT," THE FIRST NETWORK
SITCOM IN 20 YEARS CENTERED
AROUND AN ASIAN-AMERICAN FAMILY.
THE NEWSHOUR'S MORI ROTHMAN
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: LIKE MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS, JEFF YANG WATCHED THE
RECENT PREMIERE OF "FRESH OFF
THE BOAT."
YANG IS A COLUMNIST FOR THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL" ONLINE AND
HAS WRITTEN ABOUT ASIAN AMERICAN
ISSUES AND AMERICA'S CHANGING
DEMOGRAPHICS FOR DECADES.
>> ASIAN-AMERICANS ARE
DISPROPORTIONATELY EDUCATED,
WHICH MEANS THAT THERE'S A... A
GROWING MIDDLE-CLASS AND UPPER-
MIDDLE CLASS WHITE-COLLAR
POPULATION OF ASIAN-AMERICANS,
AFFLUENT, WITH DISPOSABLE
INCOME.
THE KIND OF DEMOGRAPHIC THAT
MARKETERS HISTORICALLY HAVE BEEN
SEEKING TO REACH.
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO THE
2010 CENSUS-- WHICH DEFINES
ASIANS AS PEOPLE ORIGINATING
FROM DOZENS OF COUNTRIES
INCLUDING CHINA, INDIA AND THE
PHILIPPINES-- ASIAN AMERICANS
ACCOUNT FOR A SMALL SEGMENT OF
THE U.S., JUST OVER 17 MILLION
PEOPLE.
BUT A NIELSEN REPORT ON THE
ASIAN AMERICAN CONSUMER SAYS
ASIANS ARE THE FASTEST GROWING
GROUP IN THE U.S., HAVING GROWN
58% FROM 2000 TO 2013.
THAT'S WHY YANG BELIEVES TV
LINEUPS ARE DIVERSIFYING.
NETWORKS MADE A SPLASH LAST YEAR
BY ANNOUNCING TEN NEW SHOWS THIS
SEASON WITH NON-WHITE CHARACTERS
OR NON-WHITE SHOW CREATORS.
BUT YANG IS PAYING SPECIAL
ATTENTION TO ONE SHOW, AND NOT
JUST BECAUSE HE STUDIES
DEMOGRAPHICS; HE'S WATCHING FOR
HIS SON.
>> I CAN'T EVEN CLAIM TO BE A
DISPASSIONATE OBSERVER HERE, AND
NOR WOULD I WANT TO.
MY SON, OF COURSE, IS THE LEAD
KID.
HE PLAYS 11-YEAR-OLD EDDIE HUANG
IN "FRESH OFF THE BOAT."
>> THAT'S ME-- YOUR BOY, EDDIE
HUANG.
CHECK IT-- 11 YEARS OLD.
>> I COULD NEVER HAVE IMAGINED
THAT IT WOULD BE MY OFFSPRING,
THE NEXT GENERATION, WHO WOULD
BE AT THE VERY CENTER OF A
MOMENT THAT I'VE KIND OF LOOKED
FORWARD TO FOR ALL OF MY ADULT
LIFE.
>> Reporter: IN CASE YOU MISSED
IT, THE DEBUT OF "FRESH OFF THE
BOAT" ON ABC MARKED THE FIRST
TIME IN 20 YEARS YOU COULD TURN
ON YOUR TV AND WATCH A NETWORK
SHOW CENTERED AROUND AN ASIAN
AMERICAN FAMILY.
>> IF YOU TRY TO SUSPEND OUR SON
BECAUSE OF THIS, WE WILL SUE
EVERYONE IN THIS SCHOOL.
>> SO FAST IT WILL MAKE YOUR
HEAD SPIN.
HEY, IT'S THE AMERICAN WAY,
RIGHT?
>> Reporter: THE SHOW IS BASED
ON THE MEMOIR OF EDDIE HUANG, A
CELEBRITY CHEF, RESTAURATEUR AND
HOST OF THE WEB SERIES "HUANG'S
WORLD" ON vice.com.
THE SITCOM FOCUSES ON EDDIE'S
ROUGH CHILDHOOD AND HIS PARENTS'
STRUGGLES AS IMMIGRANTS TRYING
TO ACHIEVE THE AMERICAN DREAM BY
STARTING A WESTERN-THEMED
RESTAURANT.
EVEN SEEING ONE ASIAN AMERICAN
ON TV USED TO BE A RARE
OCCURRENCE UNTIL THE ARRIVAL OF
ACTORS LIKE GEORGE TAKEI IN
"STAR TREK" AND BRUCE LEE IN
"THE GREEN HORNET."
BUT SUCCESS IN THE SITCOM WORLD
HAS BEEN SLOW.
>> DO YOU KNOW WHY I ENCOURAGE
YOUR BROTHER TO BECOME A
CARDIOLOGIST?
>> NO.
>> BECAUSE I ALWAYS KNEW THAT
ONE DAY YOU GIVE ME A HEART
ATTACK.
WHAT ARE YOU WEARING?
>> Reporter: IN 1994, "ALL
AMERICAN GIRL," STARRING KOREAN-
AMERICAN COMEDIAN MARGARET CHO,
BECAME THE FIRST NETWORK SITCOM
CENTERED AROUND AN ASIAN
AMERICAN FAMILY, BUT IT WAS
CANCELED AFTER 21 EPISODES DUE
TO POOR REVIEWS AND SINKING
RATINGS.
>> YOU KNOW AND I KNOW THAT
THERE ARE A LOT OF THINGS THAT
GO INTO THE SUCCESS OF A
TELEVISION SHOW, MANY REASONS
WHY YOU MIGHT IMAGINE THAT A
SHOW MIGHT NOT WORK.
BUT WHEN YOU SEE SOMETHING AS
SINGULAR AS AN ASIAN-AMERICAN
SITCOM ON TELEVISION, WHEN IT
DOESN'T WORK, IT'S VERY EASY TO
BLAME THE FACT THAT AMERICANS
DON'T WANT TO SEE AN ASIAN.
>> Reporter: "FRESH OFF THE
BOAT" DEBUTED TO AN AUDIENCE OF
NEARLY EIGHT MILLION WHEN IT
FOLLOWED ABC'S HIGHLY-RATED
SITCOM "MODERN FAMILY" ON A
WEDNESDAY NIGHT.
THIS WEEK, AIRING DURING ITS
REGULARLY SCHEDULED TUESDAY
NIGHT TIME SLOT, "FRESH OFF THE
BOAT" HAD TWO MILLION FEWER
VIEWERS BUT STILL BEAT
COMPETITION LIKE NBC'S LONG-
RUNNING SITCOM "PARKS AND
RECREATION."
>> ON THE ONE HAND, THAT SEEMS
LIKE, WOW, THIS IS AN INCREDIBLE
MOMENT OF PROGRESS.
ON THE OTHER HAND, IT
UNDERSCORES WAYS IN WHICH OUR
MASS POPULAR CULTURE IS STILL A
LAGGING INDICATOR, NOT A LEADING
INDICATOR.
IT... IT FOLLOWS A LITTLE BIT
BEHIND WHAT'S ACTUALLY CHANGING
ON THE GROUND, IN OUR LIVES, IN
OUR SCHOOLS AND IN OUR FAMILIES.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Stewart: NOW TO "VIEWERS LIKE
YOU."
TONIGHT, YOUR RESPONSE TO LAST
WEEK'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT FROM
MAIN STREET, COLUMBUS,
MISSISSIPPI, WHERE A NUMBER OF
INTERNATIONAL COMPANIES HAVE
OPENED UP SHOP AND STARTED
HIRING.
MOST OF YOUR COMMENTS WERE,
WELL, SKEPTICAL.
JEANSC SAID: "THE KEY TO
YOKOHAMA TIRE'S CHOICE TO LOCATE
HERE IS NON-UNION JOBS.
THE 'GOLDEN TRIANGLE' IS PART OF
THE 'THIRD WORLD' PART OF THE
U.S.A.
THE MANUFACTURERS LOCATING HERE
ARE, FOR THE MOST PART, MAINLY
TRYING TO BUY THE LABOR AS
CHEAPLY AS POSSIBLE AND MAKE
SURE IT'S MORE EXPLOITABLE BY
BEING NON-UNION."
CURTIS ADDED: "A $15 PER HOUR
WAGE IS ABOUT $30,000 A YEAR.
AT $30,000 A YEAR, A WORKER WILL
NEVER QUALIFY TO PURCHASE A
HOME, SEND THEIR CHILDREN TO
COLLEGE OR SAVE FOR A DECENT
RETIREMENT.
THIS IS THE REALITY OF BLUE
COLLAR LABOR IN THE U.S."
AND THIS FROM BILL RYAN: "THE
MODERN MANUFACTURERS DEMAND A
BETTER EDUCATED WORK FORCE.
IF YOU DON'T ADDRESS THAT FIRST,
BUSINESS WILL GO ELSEWHERE."
TINA BEELEL COMMENTED: "A FRIEND
WHO USED TO LIVE THERE SAID AN
AUTO PLANT DID WELL FOR THE
ECONOMY IN HIS AREA.
I WOULD ASSUME IT DEPENDS WHAT
KIND OF BUSINESS IS BEING BUILT.
ANOTHER WALMART?
NO."
IN OUR STORY, MISSISSIPPI
GOVERNOR PHIL BRYANT TALKED
ABOUT THE NEW JOBS IN HIS STATE.
>> THESE ARE MANUFACTURING JOBS.
AND SO, HOPEFULLY, THEY ARE
THOSE TYPE THAT WILL BE
TRANSFERRED FROM ONE GENERATION
TO THE NEXT.
>> Stewart: WHICH BROUGHT THIS
COMMENT FROM ANLA: "ONE AND A
HALF GENERATIONS PERHAPS.
THEN, LIKE THE NORTHERN STATES,
ANOTHER STATE OR COUNTRY WILL
UNDERCUT THE COST-- TAX BREAKS,
ETC.-- AND THEY WILL MOVE.
MANUFACTURING JOBS WORK ONLY
WHERE EMPLOYEES ARE WILLING TO
WORK FOR DESPERATION WAGES, LIKE
IN MISSISSIPPI."
AS ALWAYS, WE WELCOME YOUR
COMMENTS AT
www.pbs.org/newshour, ON OUR
FACEBOOK PAGE, OR TWEET US
@NEWSHOUR.
>> Stewart: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
AUTHORITIES IN NEW ZEALAND ARE
TRYING TO SAVE ABOUT 60 WHALES
STRANDED ON A BEACH.
ANOTHER 140 THAT CAME ASHORE
DIED.
AND ON VALENTINE'S DAY, THIS: A
NEW APP THAT WILL HELP YOU
CREATE A FAKE BOYFRIEND OR
GIRLFRIEND WHO WILL TEXT YOU,
POST ON YOUR FACEBOOK PAGE, EVEN
WRITE YOU A LETTER.
SUBSCRIBERS GET TO INVENT THEIR
LOOKS AND PERSONALITY AND,
YES, TENS OF THOUSANDS HAVE
SIGNED UP.
WELCOME TO 2015.
I'M ALISON STEWART.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.